Document import assertions (#19588)
mdn/content: files/en-us/web/javascript/reference/statements/import/assert/index.md

---

> title: import assertions

Reviewer: Capitalization looks strange here. 
```suggestion
title: Import assertion
```

---
title: Import assertion
slug: Web/JavaScript/Reference/Statements/import/assert
tags:
  - JavaScript
  - Modules
  - Reference
  - Statement
  - import
  - Experimental
browser-compat: javascript.statements.import.import_assertions
---

{{jsSidebar("Statements")}}

The **import assertion** feature of [`import`](/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Statements/import) statements and [`export...from`](/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Statements/export#re-exporting_aggregating) statements tell the host to do after-the-fact checks about a module's metadata, making the host optionally throw if the assertion fails.

## Syntax

```js

> export { exports } from "module-name" assert {};

Author: ```suggestion
import { exports } from "module-name" assert {};
```

import { exports } from "module-name" assert { key: "data" };
import { exports } from "module-name" assert { key: "data", key2: "data2" };
import { exports } from "module-name" assert { key: "data", key2: "data2", /* …, */ keyN: "dataN" };

export { exports } from "module-name" assert {};
export { exports } from "module-name" assert { key: "data" };
export { exports } from "module-name" assert { key: "data", key2: "data2" };
export { exports } from "module-name" assert { key: "data", key2: "data2", /* …, */ keyN: "dataN" };
```

> **Note:** Assertions can be attached to any kind of `import`/`export from` statement, including default import, namespace import, etc.

> > **Note:** The grammar does not allow a line break between the `"module-name"` specifier and the `assert` keyword, to avoid syntactical ambiguity in the following valid code where `assert` is a variable name via [automatic semicolon insertion](/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Lexical_grammar#automatic_semicolon_insertion):

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
> **Note:** The grammar does not allow a line break between the `"module-name"` specifier and the `assert` keyword, in order to avoid syntactical ambiguity in the following valid code where `assert` is a variable name via [automatic semicolon insertion](/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Lexical_grammar#automatic_semicolon_insertion):
```

>
> ```js
> import { something } from "module-name"
> assert(something)
> ```

### Parameters

- `keyN`
  - : One assertion key. Can be an identifier or a string literal — similar to what you can use in an [object literal](/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Operators/Object_initializer), except for number literals and computed properties.
- `"dataN"`
  - : One assertion value. Must be a string literal.

## Description

> Import assertions allow hosts to do additional checks about the module that has just been loaded. The primary motivation was JSON modules. Consider the following statement:

Reviewer 2: I would be explicit here about the problem "at very high level". The paragraph further down which explains the problem is not clear, but I think you mean:

```suggestion
Import assertions allow hosts to do additional checks about the module that has just been loaded. The primary motivation was to ensure that JSON modules are not parsed as code if served incorrectly.

Consider the following statement:
```

Author: Sounds much better. Thanks!

```js
import data from "https://exmaple.com/data.json";
```

> On the web, each import statement would result in a HTTP request. The response is then prepared into a JavaScript value and made available to the program by the host (i.e. the browser). For example, the response may look like this:

Reviewer 2: Note, prefer not to use i.e. if possible. Note, don't merge this suggestion, just used for highlighting
```suggestion
On the web, each import statement would result in a HTTP request. The response is then prepared into a JavaScript value and made available to the program by the host (such as a browser or Xxxx). For example, the response may look like this:
```

Author: I used "i.e." here because we are talking about "on the web", so hosts must be browsers.

Reviewer 2: Can't they be node scripts? The point about "i.e." is that screen readers don't handle the text well (I'm told).

Author: Here we are talking about MIME types, so no, not Node (Node uses file extensions, so this section is irrelevant in general). I wonder how screen readers pronounce it? I won't consider "ai ee the browser" an entirely bad pronunciation—I do that myself 😄

Reviewer 2: No idea. The problem came up as an accessibility issue in some reviews of my work. So I'm just sharing the load.

I think the word "host" might be the problem. I'm so used to seeing "user-agent" to mean browser.

Author: "User-agent" is more about the user-facing aspect; "host" is more about the JS-facing aspect. A host for a JavaScript interpreter; a user agent for an end user.

```http
HTTP/1.1 200 OK
Content-Type: application/json; charset=utf-8
...
{"name":"John"}
```

> JSON modules are identified by the `application/json` [MIME type](/en-US/docs/Web/HTTP/Basics_of_HTTP/MIME_types). When the host sees this MIME type instead of `text/javascript` (for JavaScript source), it would parse the result as JSON instead of executing it as code — and the former is generally a safer thing to do. However, there's no in-code metadata that signals the author's intent that a particular module should always be interpreted as JSON. Very importantly, the extension (the last part of the URL) cannot be used to identify a file's type — only the MIME type can. If the `https://exmaple.com/data.json` URL actually returns a JS file with `text/javascript` MIME, the `import` would unintentionally execute external code, causing a security threat.

Reviewer 2: This para is confusing - it takes a long time to get to "the mime type served might be wrong". Also type emaple.com.

Author: A very important mission of this page is to explain why assertions can't change how a module is interpreted—on the web, interpretation is always done through MIME types. This has been a recurring confusion of the import-assertions proposal.

---
title: Import assertion
slug: Web/JavaScript/Reference/Statements/import/assert

> tags:

Reviewer 3: This page needs a page type, I guess.

  - JavaScript
  - Modules
  - Reference
  - Statement
  - import
  - Experimental
browser-compat: javascript.statements.import.import_assertions
---

{{jsSidebar("Statements")}}

> The **import assertion** feature tell the host to do after-the-fact checks about a module's metadata, making the host optionally throw if the assertion fails. It's supported in [`import`](/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Statements/import) declarations, [`export...from`](/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Statements/export#re-exporting_aggregating) declarations, and dynamic [`import()`](/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Operators/import).

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The **import assertion** feature tells the host to do after-the-fact checks about a module's metadata, making the host optionally throw if the assertion fails. It's supported in [`import`](/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Statements/import) declarations, [`export...from`](/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Statements/export#re-exporting_aggregating) declarations, and dynamic [`import()`](/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Operators/import).
```

## Syntax

```js
import { exports } from "module-name" assert {};
import { exports } from "module-name" assert { key: "data" };
import { exports } from "module-name" assert { key: "data", key2: "data2" };
import { exports } from "module-name" assert { key: "data", key2: "data2", /* …, */ keyN: "dataN" };

export { exports } from "module-name" assert {};
export { exports } from "module-name" assert { key: "data" };
export { exports } from "module-name" assert { key: "data", key2: "data2" };
export { exports } from "module-name" assert { key: "data", key2: "data2", /* …, */ keyN: "dataN" };
```

> > **Note:** Assertions can be attached to any kind of `import`/`export from` statement, including default import, namespace import, etc.

Reviewer 3: Is this note-worthy? Doesn't seem like a pitfall to watch out for or the like.

Author: I added a note because the syntax box only shows one possibility but not the rest. This is more of a note of the syntax above.

Reviewer 3: I think it could be without the note box. I just always feel this tweet when there are too many note boxes.
https://twitter.com/ddbeck/status/1509925868021420042/photo/1 :)

> **Note:** The grammar does not allow a line break between the `"module-name"` specifier and the `assert` keyword, in order to avoid syntactical ambiguity in the following valid code where `assert` is a variable name via [automatic semicolon insertion](/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Lexical_grammar#automatic_semicolon_insertion):
>
> ```js
> import { something } from "module-name"
> assert(something)
> ```

### Parameters

- `keyN`

>   - : One assertion key. Can be an identifier or a string literal — similar to what you can use in an [object literal](/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Operators/Object_initializer), except for number literals and computed properties.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
  - : An assertion key. Can be an identifier or a string literal — similar to what you can use in an [object literal](/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Operators/Object_initializer), except for number literals and computed properties.
```

- `"dataN"`

>   - : One assertion value. Must be a string literal.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
  - : An assertion value. Must be a string literal.
```

## Description

> Import assertions allow hosts to do additional checks about the module that has just been loaded. The primary motivation was to ensure that JSON modules are not parsed as code if served incorrectly.

Reviewer 2: @Josh-Cena  On re-reading, I am not sure that this line is correct. My thinking is that json being parsed as code is fine. What we don't want it something something pretending to be json to be parsed as code. Isn't that the security problem. Or are they both issues?

```suggestion
Import assertions allow hosts to do additional checks about the module that has just been loaded. The primary motivation was to ensure that code modules served incorrectly as JSON are not executed, as this is a security hole.
```

Author: JSON being "executed as code" doesn't sound like a problem, barring if it makes sense (a piece of JSON text is not valid JS syntax, especially if it's enclosed in braces—that would be a block statement). I assume you mean "JSON being evaluated with the privilege of JS code"? This means if you have `assert { type: "javascript" }` (I don't think it exists), it's _probably_ fine if the module ended up being a JSON module. The problem is that, sans import assertions, all import statements implicitly have the privilege of JS code, including JSON modules that should probably have less privilege. The idea is to secure against this case:

- An endpoint serves a JSON module with `application/json`, and you import this.
- One day, the endpoint is compromised (or it was bogus in the first place), and it starts serving a different module which is JS with `text/javascript`, and you continue to import it.

You assumed the code is evaluated without any side-effects and provides you the data you need, while in fact you allowed arbitrary code to be executed. I agree the original wording is incorrect: it's not "JSON modules are parsed as code", it's "what you believe to be JSON modules actually ended up being parsed as code". What about:

```suggestion
Import assertions allow hosts to do additional checks about the module that has just been loaded. The primary motivation was to ensure that JSON modules are always being parsed as JSON, and are never executed with the privilege of JS code if the request target's response changes.
```

Reviewer 2: Hmmm. Now I see why you were happy with the original text. I get it - I'm just wondering if the leap from "if the request target's response changes." to the concept that your response has been hijacked is too great. 

I like the nuance that it is host code setting the expectation of the file type. Something like:

```suggestion
Import assertions allow hosts to do additional checks about the module that has just been loaded. The primary motivation was to ensure that modules that are expected to be JSON are always parsed as JSON (in other words, to ensure that they are never executed with the privilege of JS code even if the server response changes to indicate that the file contains code).
```

> Import assertions allow hosts to do additional checks about the module that has just been loaded. The primary motivation was to ensure that modules that are expected to be JSON are always parsed as JSON (in other words, to ensure that they are never executed with the privilege of JS code).

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Import assertions allow hosts to do additional checks about the module that has just been loaded. The primary use case is to ensure that modules that are expected to be JSON are always parsed as JSON (in other words, to ensure that they are never executed with the privilege of JS code).
```

Consider the following statement:

```js
import data from "https://example.com/data.json";
```

On the web, each import statement would result in a HTTP request. The response is then prepared into a JavaScript value and made available to the program by the host (i.e. the browser). For example, the response may look like this:

```http
HTTP/1.1 200 OK
Content-Type: application/json; charset=utf-8
...
{"name":"John"}
```

> JSON modules are identified by the `application/json` [MIME type](/en-US/docs/Web/HTTP/Basics_of_HTTP/MIME_types). When the host sees this MIME type instead of `text/javascript` (for JavaScript source), it would parse the result as JSON instead of executing it as code — and the former is generally a safer thing to do. However, there's no in-code metadata that signals the author's intent that a particular module should always be interpreted as JSON. Very importantly, the extension (the last part of the URL) cannot be used to identify a file's type — only the MIME type can. If the `https://example.com/data.json` URL actually returns a JS file with `text/javascript` MIME, the `import` would unintentionally execute external code, causing a security threat.
> 
> Import assertions fix this problem by allowing the author to explicitly specify how a module should be validated. For example, the import statement above would actually fail in a browser:

Reviewer 2: " — and the former is generally a safer thing to do" - I think you are saying "it is safter to parse anything as JSON than as code". Is that right?

Anyway, I think the structure is hard to read, so here is the first part of a suggestion to change it. The idea is to start as you have ...

```suggestion
Modules are identified and parsed only according to their served [MIME type](/en-US/docs/Web/HTTP/Basics_of_HTTP/MIME_types)  — the URL file extension cannot be used to identify a file's type. 

In this case the type is `application/json`, which tells the host browser that the file is JSON and must be parsed as JSON.
If MIME type in the server response was incorrectly set to `text/javascript` (for JavaScript source), the file would be executed as code.
If the "json" file actually contained malicious code, the fact that the `import` executes the file as code could pose a serious security threat.
 
Import assertions fix this problem by allowing the author to explicitly specify how a module should be validated. For example, here we add the assertion that tells the host that this file must contain json. If it doesn't we'll get the following error:
```

_You'd then replace the error below with the one for a mismatched json._ so it would go like this:

```js
import data from "https://example.com/data.json" assert { type: "json" };
```

This does NOT change how the module is interpreted. The host already knows to parse the module as JSON or code given the MIME type. It only uses the assertion to do _after-the-fact_ checking that the `data.json` module is, in fact, a JSON module. For example, if the response header changes to `Content-Type: text/javascript` instead, the program will fail:

...

Last of all you have a note about the default assertion being code - which is why having JSON without an assert fails.

What do you think?

Author: This sounds much better! I have some minor changes to make so I'll not directly commit it, but I'll definitely go with your structure

Reviewer 2: Cool, I'll leave you with it. I'll be back Friday.

Reviewer 2: PS and I can see some ways you might want to following your other comments - e.g.

> If the "json" file actually contained malicious code, the fact that the `import` executes the file as code could pose a serious security threat.

might be better as something that says. "If the server was hijacked to send the file with ..."

```
Failed to load module script: Expected a JavaScript module script but the server responded with a MIME type of "application/json". Strict MIME type checking is enforced for module scripts per HTML spec.
```

> Instead, you must provide an assertion. To validate the module's type (via MIME type), you use the assertion key called `type`. To validate that the module is a JSON module, the value is `"json"`.

Reviewer 2: This is all a bit confusing to me - i.e. when it fails and why. What I think you're saying is that:
- Top example imports a json file with json mime type. This fails because even though it is correctly identified and parsed as JSON, the `import` makes the browser think it should be code.
- If this was served as code it would be imported as code, and that would be wrong too.
- So the solution is to use an assert to say that this file must be json and it is OK to import it. Now if the file is served as json everything will work because the browser knows that this is your intent. If it is served as code the import will fail because - which is safe.

Is that right?

Author: On the web:

- The content type and the assertion must match, JavaScript-to-JavaScript, JSON-to-JSON.
- A mismatched assertion always fails.
- A missing assertion implicitly means `assert { type: "javascript" }`.

This means:

- Import without assertion cannot import anything other than JavaScript—JSON would fail as well.
- Import with `assert { type: "json" }` cannot import anything other than JSON.

> This fails because even though it is correctly identified and parsed as JSON, the `import` makes the browser think it should be code.

Yeah I think you get it. The `import` without assertions is always JavaScript (i.e. code).

> If this was served as code it would be imported as code, and that would be wrong too.

If it's served with `text/javascript` it would actually succeed, because it's undistinguishable from a normal JS module. This is why browsers don't allow you to omit the assertion when importing JSON—that basically prevents the entire security system from working.

Reviewer 2: Yes, I get it. I'm pretty sure your text all says this too. It just feels quite hard to read. I'll think about it a bit more.

> > **Note:** The actual assertion value does not correspond to the MIME type. It's separately specified by the WHATWG specification.

Reviewer 3: Link to the spec?

Author: I would need someone who's familiar with HTML to point that out to me 😄 I did note that in https://github.com/mdn/content/pull/19588#issuecomment-1214986547

Reviewer 3: I think it might be https://html.spec.whatwg.org/multipage/webappapis.html#module-type-allowed ?

Therefore, the code above should be re-written as:

```js
import data from "https://example.com/data.json" assert { type: "json" };
```

> This does NOT change how the module is interpreted. The host already knows to parse the module as JSON given the MIME type. It only uses the assertion to do _after-the-fact_ checking that the `data.json` module is, in fact, a JSON module. For example, if the response header changes to `Content-Type: text/javascript` instead, the program will fail:

Reviewer 3: I think it is better to always use proper emphasis for accessibility/screen readers. 
```suggestion
This does **not** change how the module is interpreted. The host already knows to parse the module as JSON given the MIME type. It only uses the assertion to do _after-the-fact_ checking that the `data.json` module is, in fact, a JSON module. For example, if the response header changes to `Content-Type: text/javascript` instead, the program will fail:
```

```
Failed to load module script: Expected a JSON module script but the server responded with a MIME type of "text/javascript". Strict MIME type checking is enforced for module scripts per HTML spec.
```

The assertion syntax is designed to be extensible — although only `type` is known to be supported, you can put arbitrary keys in the assertion bag.

```js
// Likely does nothing...
import data from "https://example.com/module.js" assert { this: "looks good" };
```

> This likely does nothing unless your host reads that key. The assertion:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This likely does nothing unless your host understands that key. The assertion:
```

> The assertion syntax is designed to be extensible — although only `type` is known to be supported, you can put arbitrary keys in the assertion bag.

Reviewer 3: bag? block?

```suggestion
The assertion syntax is designed to be extensible — although only `type` is known to be supported, you can put arbitrary keys in the assertion block.
```

Author: I think "bag" is better. It's used in the proposal text itself, and we commonly call options objects "bags", because they can contain arbitrary keys that implementations read while the language doesn't explicitly care about.

Reviewer 3: I haven't heard "bag" before in this context. Maybe "object" is better? "bag" doesn't seem to be a regular technical term to me

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The assertion syntax is designed to be extensible — although only `type` is known to be supported, you can put arbitrary keys in the assertion options object.
```

> import data from "https://example.com/module.js" assert { this: "looks good" };

Reviewer 3: I think "this" is always a bit weird as a key. It has special meaning in JS.

```suggestion
import data from "https://example.com/module.js" assert { version: "2.0.0" };
```

> This likely does nothing unless your host understands that key. The assertion:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
This likely does nothing unless your host understands what do to with a `version` key. The assertion:
```

- Does not affect how the host interprets the module. For example, the host will not decide to parse a module as JSON if it has already decided that the module contains JavaScript — via MIME type in browsers or extensions in Node.js — even when there's a `type: "json"` assertion. It would simply fail the import.

> - Is not used by the host to cache the module. If a module with the same specifier is imported twice twice, once with the assertion and once without, and neither import fails, then they would result in the exact same module without re-executing it.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- Is not used by the host to cache the module. If a module with the same specifier is imported twice, once with the assertion and once without, and neither import fails, then they would result in the exact same module without re-executing it.
```

> - Is not used by the host to cache the module. If a module with the same specifier is imported twice, once with the assertion and once without, and neither import fails, then they would result in the exact same module without re-executing it.

Reviewer 2: The sentence still feels a little awkward. I think it is because I don't know what you mean by "without re-executing it." - or more precisely what importing the same module twice means - i.e. it could be that a browser will overwrite a previous import or something.

Are you saying that the browser will ignore the assertion for caching - i.e. it will be like it sees the same import statement twice, so it will ignore the second import?

Author: Yes. Importing the same module twice always results in the exact same object:

```js
import default1, { named as named1 } from "mod";
import default2, { named as named2 } from "mod";

console.assert(default1 === default2);
console.assert(named1 === named2);
```

The same happens if one of them has an assertion:

```js
import default1 from "mod" assert { type: "json" };
import default2 from "mod";

console.assert(default1 === default2);
```

I do notice that we lack some references about module semantics in general, but I have a lot to fix in the JS docs at the moment...

Reviewer 2: OK. Maybe:

```suggestion
- Is not used by the host to cache the module. (A host will only store only one copy of the module in the cache, whether or not the assert is specified).
```

Author: Shall we keep both? The "import twice" part is IMO important for illustration.

```suggestion
- Is not used by the host to cache the module. A host will only store only one copy of the module in the cache, whether or not the assert is specified. If a module with the same specifier is imported twice, once with the assertion and once without, and neither import fails, then they would result in the exact same module without re-executing it.
```

Reviewer 2: Hmmm, better than without.

The problem is that I don't understand what the last "it" refers to in "then they would result in the exact same module without re-executing it".

The specification explicitly calls out `type: "json"` to be supported. If a module is asserted to be `type: "json"` and the host does not fail this import, then it must be parsed as JSON. However, there's no behavior requirement otherwise: for imports without `type: "json"` assertions, the host may still parse it as JSON if security is not an issue in this environment.

## Examples

### Importing JSON modules with an assertion

In `data.json`:

```json
{
  "name": "John"
}
```

In `index.html`:

```html
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html lang="en-US">
  <head>
    <meta charset="utf-8" />
    <script type="module">
      import data from "./data.json" assert { type: "json" };

      const p = document.createElement("p");
      p.textContent = `name: ${data.name}`;
      document.body.appendChild(p);
    </script>
  </head>
  <body></body>
</html>
```

Start a local HTTP server (see [troubleshooting](/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Guide/Modules#troubleshooting)) and go to the `index.html` page. You should see `John` on the page.

> > **Note:** JSON modules only have one default export. You cannot do named imports from them (e.g. `import { name } from "data.json"`).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
> **Note:** JSON modules only have one default export. You cannot do named imports from them (such as `import { name } from "data.json"`).
```

Author: ```suggestion
> **Note:** JSON modules only have one default export. You cannot do named imports from them (like `import { name } from "data.json"`).
```
